# Ore Generation

Brunel uses a highly customized ore
generation scheme. Instead of all ores
appearing at different altitudes (no
matter where you are in the world), ores
generate differently in various regions
all around the world. These regions are
defined by biome type (e.g., forest,
sandy, ocean, snowy, etc.) and altitude:

• lava: 0–12
• deep: 12–48
• buried: 48–64
• surface: 64–80
• hills: 80–128
• mountains: 128–256

Within each region (i.e., each biome /
altitude pairing), each type of ore may
spawn with a different density:

• none
• trace
• normal
• dense

The following is a listing of the
various ores you can expect to find, and
a rough description of where they can be
found in greatest abundence.

## Coal
![Coal Ore](item:minecraft:coal_ore)

Coal can be found in trace amounts in
the deep parts of nearly every biome.
However, it can be found somewhat more
abundently in the hills and mountains,
and especially buried in swamps.

## Iron & Nickel
![Iron Ore](item:minecraft:iron_ore)
![Nickel Ore](item:thermalfoundation:ore@5)

Veins of iron and nickel can be found in
trace amounts nearly everywhere in the
world. It is especially common in hills
and mountains, and can be found in
particular abundance deep under the
highest mountains in the world.

## Gold
![Gold Ore](item:minecraft:gold_ore)

Gold is quite rare, and can only be
found in the hottest and driest of
climates, with the greatest
concentrations forming just above
bedrock.

## Lapis
![Lapis Ore](item:minecraft:lapis_ore)

Lapis can only be found embedded in the
gravel bottoms of rivers and oceans.

## Diamond
![Diamond Ore](item:minecraft:diamond_ore)

Diamonds form under great heat and
pressure and appear most commonly among
lava pools deep in the ground. The
higher the terrain above, the more
diamonds form below.

## Emerald
![Emerald Ore](item:minecraft:emerald_ore)

Emeralds are actually the same material
as diamonds: simply with impurities
which affect the color. They can,
therefore, be found mixed in with
diamond deposits in all the same
locations.

## Tin
![Tin Ore](item:thermalfoundation:ore@1)

Tin is generally found buried in areas
with a good deal of vegetation, but it
is also commonly washed out and can be
found in banks of gravel underwater.

## Copper
![Copper Ore](item:thermalfoundation:ore@0)

Copper is most commonly found deep under
forests, although small amounts can also
be found deep under in hills and
mountains.

## Apatite
![Apatite Ore](item:forestry:resources@0)

Apatite is only found at or just below
the surface of open grassy areas.

## Aluminum
![Aluminum Ore](item:thermalfoundation:ore@4)

Aluminum is only found in hot, sandy
climates, and in greatest abundence deep
underground.

## Silver & Lead
![Silver Ore](item:thermalfoundation:ore@2)
![Lead Ore](item:thermalfoundation:ore@3)

Veins of silver and lead ore are found
together in the coldest climates of the
world. While they can easily be found at
any altitude, they form dense deposits
only deep underground.

# Uranium & Lead
![Uranium Ore](item:immersiveengineering:ore@5)
![Lead Ore](item:immersiveengineering:ore@2)

No proper use for Uranium has yet been
discovered, although, in large enough
amounts, the metals itself gets
alarmingly hot... Even being only
found deep in the Earth, it will lays
waste to any plants and animals above
it, and causes people living there to go
mad...
